src/blogposts/websiteupdate-07-11-2020.md, before:

---
path: "/thoughts/website-update"
title: "Website Update"
date: "2020-7-11"
template: "blog"
color: "#9077E2"
---

#Website Update

This website has been through more than a few revsions since it’s beginigs back in [April of 2006](https://web.archive.org/web/20060402202533/http://davidholbrook.info/). In that time I have gone from a web hobbyist, to web knight (slightly better), to a fully employed web developer last year (never call a web developer a ‘web master’).

In that time this website has meant different things at different times, at some points it was simply just a blog talking about the latest web trends, at other times it was a portfolio showcasing off some of my greatest work, and sometimes it has just been a blank blue page. This was always to meet my needs at the time and to string a goal along, but that is changing. A great quote I came across once is [citation needed] “you do not fully learn something until you teach it”. This is something that I want to be true of me so from this point on I want my role on this website to be one of teacher (as well one of developer).

I have always thought of a personal website as a personal sandbox or testing grounds, to do things you would never do in a production website for varying reasons, but also I think of it as a way to contribute back to the community though scholarly crafted articles and great insights behind the world of evolving tech. My goal and hope for this website is to one educate you about myself (hence the .info) but also to educated you the reader of my thoughts of the world around us, not through political, opinionated, or harassing thoughts, but informed and educated thought the world around us especially in tech and work based thought.

Commit message:

art direction on posts via own color schemes
Signed-off-by: David Holbrook <david@davidholbrook.info>

src/blogposts/websiteupdate-07-11-2020.md, after:

---
path: "/thoughts/website-update"
title: "Website Update"
date: "2020-7-11"
template: "blog"
primary: "HSL(254, 65%, 68%)"
secondary: "HSL(434, 90%, 20%)"
accent: "HSL(524, 20%, 90%)"
---

This website has been through more than a few revsions since it’s beginigs back in [April of 2006](https://web.archive.org/web/20060402202533/http://davidholbrook.info/). In that time I have gone from a web hobbyist, to web knight (slightly better), to a fully employed web developer last year (never call a web developer a ‘web master’).

In that time this website has meant different things at different times, at some points it was simply just a blog talking about the latest web trends, at other times it was a portfolio showcasing off some of my greatest work, and sometimes it has just been a blank blue page. This was always to meet my needs at the time and to string a goal along, but that is changing. A great quote I came across once is [citation needed] “you do not fully learn something until you teach it”. This is something that I want to be true of me so from this point on I want my role on this website to be one of teacher (as well one of developer).

> You do not fully learn something until you teach it.

I have always thought of a personal website as a personal sandbox or testing grounds, to do things you would never do in a production website for varying reasons, but also I think of it as a way to contribute back to the community though scholarly crafted articles and great insights behind the world of evolving tech. My goal and hope for this website is to one educate you about myself (hence the .info) but also to educated you the reader of my thoughts of the world around us, not through political, opinionated, or harassing thoughts, but informed and educated thought the world around us especially in tech and work based thought.
